Wow, Corbin, if you guys weren't blessed this morning by Corbin and the praise team, you weren't paying attention.
We are so blessed to have him here.
Thank you, Corbin.
Thank you, praise team.
Now, in the spirit of being a very good Big Ten sports fan, even though I'm a boilermaker at heart,
I want to give my utmost congratulations to all of you IU fans out there in the crowd for a wonderful victory on Friday.
And the best of luck to you next Monday.
I know Brian, you can't believe I said it, can you?
Can't believe those words came out of my mouth.
I'm going to be preaching today in the continuation of the sermon series that Tim started last Sunday.
called the generosity series.
And for you that were here, Tim spoke about the first offerings ever recorded in the scripture.
Genesis tells us that Cain and Abel both brought their offerings to present to the Lord.
Tim taught us why Abel's offering was more pleasing to God.
And it was because it was of the firstborn, the fat
portion.
It was about priority.
You see, Abel trusted God with what came first.
Abel's offering demonstrated his faith and trust in the Lord.
And Genesis shows us that worship isn't just about what we give, but it's about how
and why we give.
First fruit's giving isn't as much about generosity as it is about faith.
It says, God, I trust you with what comes next.
And it's this faithfulness that God desires.
Tim shared last week with you his first
tithing story or his first giving as a young man when he came to faith.
Now, pagan my stories are just a little bit different.
You see, I grew up in the church.
I grew up watching my grandfather and my father just tithe.
That was just part of our life.
And I'll be honest, it was pretty easy for pagan.
When we got married, I was still in college.
I was a sophomore at Ball State.
I didn't have a job.
Peggy was working full-time making a whopping minimum wage at the Hertz Car rental agency in Anderson, Indiana.
We were living on $8,000 a year in 1984.
Now, so when you think about it, $10,800 is nothing.
I mean, in the whole scheme of things that didn't change our life,
Didn't take a lot of faith for us to give.
Then I graduate from college, get my degree in organic chemistry, and I get the best job that an organic chemist could have at the time in research with Eli Lilly.
Sign that contract and I tell you I was set.
I could not believe we were going to be making $24,000 a year.
Where's it going to go?
How in the world can the two of us spend $24,000 a year?
So it was pretty simple to tie then too.
She and I were both big fans of Larry Burkett.
Now you youngsters have never heard of Larry Burkett, but he was the Dave Ramsey of my generation, okay?
So it was pretty easy.
We just budgeted.
My wife is a wonderful budgeteer.
If you know her, she's got the little green ledgers.
I mean, she's in her joy when she's doing bookkeeping.
So we had her little budget set up and we just based it on 90% of 24,000.
It was simple.
There was a confess.
It didn't take a lot of faith for us to give.
It really didn't.
Then I left Lily.
because I wanted to move back here and be around all you guys and started my business with Edward Jones.
Now that's a little different because now I'm working 100% commission.
I started every month going into the office and hit the computer screen and my commission screen says zero.
That's when I learned what it truly meant to live by faith
and to give by faith, to trust God with the first fruits, and to trust Him with what comes next.
Now, I want to just stop right here and tell you my message today in Tim's message in this series is not a prosperity gospel message, okay?
That's not what I'm going to be talking about today, not at all.
I don't believe in prosperity gospel.
I don't even want to go there.
That's not where I want to go today.
I want you to get the message that if we are faithful, if you are faithful to Him, He will be faithful to you.
And we will receive the blessing that this song sings about today.
And one of the reasons this song means so much to me, as Corbin mentioned, is it is directly from Scripture.
Numbers chapter 6, verses 24 through 26.
The Lord bless you and keep you.
The Lord make His face shine on you and be gracious to you.
The Lord turned his face toward you and give you peace.
I want to start by giving you a little background, a little context of where this priestly blessing came from.
See, God had just led through Moses the Israelites out of bondage in Egypt.
They'd been in captivity and in a foreign land for years and years.
Moses had taken him out to the desert.
God had delivered the Ten Commandments to Moses.
In other words, his law, his covenant, what he desired for his people to do, to be faithful to him.
They had just finished building a tabernacle and they were beginning regular worship in the tabernacle in the wilderness.
And Moses told Aaron,
in all of his sons in offspring who were going to be the priest, the lineage of priests throughout history.
This is the blessing.
These are the words that I want you to deliver to the people when they're worshiping.
After they have presented their sacrifices and their offerings before the altar, Aaron would give these words as a blessing.
to those that were faithful.
So essentially, if I could kind of sum up what God's desire was for His people, I think I can say it in this one word, to love the Lord your God and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul.
That's what God is desiring from us.
That's what it takes for us to be faithful to Him, to receive this blessing and to have Him put His name upon us.
So let's break the blessing down verse by verse and see what it means to you and me today.
Verse 24, the Lord bless you and keep you.
See, when the Lord blesses you, He shows His favor to you.
And He shows His favor by being abundant with everything that you need.
He is your abundant source of all good things.
And if you want to get deeper into just what that means, you can go to Deuteronomy chapter 28.
It spells out
how God will bless you.
And just a few of them I'm gonna list here.
The Lord your God will set you high above all the nations on earth.
The fruit of your womb will be blessed.
In other words, your children.
The crops of your land will be blessed.
The young of your livestock will be blessed.
Your basket and your kneading trough will be blessed.
Your barns and everything you put your hand to will be blessed.
Essentially, all you do will be blessed, but that's not all.
Verse 24 goes on to say, he will also keep you.
Now the Hebrew word for this is Shemar.
And Shemar means,
to guard and to protect.
And what it literally means is that he will place a hedge of protection around you and your family.
What a perfect father.
Not only does he provide for us, but he also protects us.
Let's move on to verse 25.
The Lord make His face shine on you and be gracious to you.
When God makes His face shine on you, He's looking upon you with favor.
And it suggests that God looks at us and smiles.
Isn't that an awesome picture?
I think of how I feel
When I look at my children and my grandchildren, trust me, there was no better feeling than when I'm sitting there at my son's house on Christmas Day.
And I've got all my family around me.
And these little kids are running around playing with each other.
I mean, they just, it's just precious.
And I just sat there and smiled.
That's how God feels when He looks upon us.
When we are faithful to Him, He looks down on us and smiles.
Well, verse 25 ends with Him being gracious to us.
Because God is gracious, we are the recipients of His compassion and steadfast love.
One of my favorite verses demonstrates this, and it's Romans 5-8.
And I have to tell a little story about this verse because it's kind of funny.
Back when I was a younger man,
Maybe in my 30s, instead of my 60s, I played a lot of ball.
Played a lot of softball.
And we had three teams here at this church in a league.
And I played on the old man's league.
We were called Omega.
We had the Alpha and the Omega.
Alpha was the young kids.
Omega were the old men.
And then there was Epsilon in there also.
But anyhow, our team cap
We all wore the same ball cap.
We had jerseys and a team cap and it had a cross on it.
It was called the cross cap.
Pretty simple, right?
But on the side, right here on the side above our ears was Romans 5, 8.
One of my good friends, his wife challenged him one day.
He goes, so, what's Romans 5, 8?
What's the scripture?
and he was caught like a deer in the head like, I don't know.
Well, if you're going to be wearing that on your head, you darn well should know what it means.
And what Romans 5, 8 says is that God demonstrates his love for us in this, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
He accepts us.
while we are yet sinners.
He redeems this by his forgiveness and he keeps redeeming us through his faithful presence and power.
I want to move on to the final part of this blessing, verse 26.
The Lord, turn his face toward you and give you peace.
When the Lord turns his face toward us, he's giving us his full attention.
No distractions.
He's not looking left or right.
He's looking right into our eyes and giving us his full attention.
No distractions.
And it reminds me of when I'm around my grandkids.
Again, I'm sorry if I'm bringing them up too much, but they're important in my life.
But you're trying to get a message across to them.
And like any five-year-old, eight-year-old, three-year-old, you name it, their little minds are going, here, here, here, here, here, here, here.
And I'm trying to get their attention, and it's like,
Look me in the eyes.
And sometimes I have to grab their face and say, look me in the eyes and listen.
Well, see, that's what God does to us.
He loves us so much.
There are no distractions.
He is looking directly at us, right in our eyes.
And because of this, we can live our lives in this messed up
screwed up world that we're in today and we can look into his eyes and we can find peace.
This is the blessing that God wants to bestow on us.
But you know, we have to want to receive it, don't we?
He wants to bestow it, but we have to be willing to receive it.
And we also need to be willing to pass it on.
This is what the second part of the blessing song is all about.
May his favor be upon you and a thousand generations in your family and your children and their children.
and their children.
This is the part of the song where I have to stop because I just break down and weep.
I can't continue to sing at this part.
You see, I stand here as a recipient of that blessing.
because of how my grandfather and my father lived their lives.
I could not have asked for a better spiritual ancestry than what I was given.
My grandpa Eldon lived out his faithfulness every day of his life.
I grew up working on the farm with him.
So I saw him every day in good situations and in bad situations.
And he didn't just live a faithful life here at church when the doors were open.
He lived it every day.
I also had the privilege of serving here as an elder at the same time that he was an elder.
And it was pretty incredible to watch him with his calm wisdom as he went about trying to lead our church and the way that we should go.
Because of his faithfulness, his son, my dad followed in his footsteps and he raised us six kids
to be just as strong in our faith.
Some of you know Dad's story, some of you don't.
Again, his story is not one that someone that was up here to preach a prosperity gospel would use.
My dad, at age 34, lost his wife and my mom,
sudden death.
And here he is with four ornery kids, 12 and under and a farm to run all by himself.
Fortunately, he was blessed to be my current mom and had two more children.
But then at age 49, he lost everything he worked for.
lost his farm, lost all of his land.
Everything he owned, he watched to be sold off in a sheriff's auction.
He had every reason to walk away from faith and to say, God, this is not what I signed up for.
I've done everything I can.
I've lived my life and this is what I get.
You see, according to the world's standards, my dad is not prosperous.
But according to the things of eternal importance, faith, family, friends, my dad is the richest man in America.
If you would have stepped foot in my brother's barn in the middle of December when we had the big Cayley Christmas, and when everyone's there, there's close to 50 of us.
And I just love sitting there and watching my dad sit back in his chair.
He doesn't say much, but he just looks around and smiles.
He knows he's the richest man in America.
He has been blessed, not by the world's standards, but by God's standards.
My grandpa Eldon was my spiritual hero, so was and is.
My dad.
My hope is that someday my grandchildren will look to me
as their spiritual hero.
In the same way I looked up to Grandpa Elden and my dad.
I can't think of any better legacy to leave this world and receive my reward than to have my grandchildren and my children feel about me the way I do about dad and grandpa.
And even to this day, one of the greatest blessings I get each week
is standing next to my dad during worship service and listening to his 86-year-old voice, spelled out these worship songs.
I guarantee if anyone was sitting around him this morning, they would have heard him singing just as loud as anyone else.
And then on that same day, being able to see my son,
and grandchildren, and today my daughters here also, they normally attend a church in Fort Wayne, but she's here today.
There's no greater blessing than that.
I hope that each and every one of you has been blessed with faithful examples like I've been blessed with through my father and through my grandfather.
I hope you have someone in your family
That is your spiritual hero.
And if you don't, then be that person.
Live your life in a way that makes a difference.
Become the superhero of faith for your family.
So my challenge to you is this, live in a way
that you not only receive the blessing, but also allow that blessing to be passed down to your children and their children to a thousand generations.
Let me wrap it up by reciting the blessing one more time for you.
The Lord bless you and keep you.
The Lord make His face shine on you.
and be gracious to you.
The Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace.
This is a powerful and generous blessing that he has bestowed upon us.
However, the greatest blessing is that our Heavenly Father sent his one
and only Son to become flesh and to die for the forgiveness of our sins.
I hope that we never lose our fascination with that, with the fact that Almighty God emptied Himself and took on the form of a man.
Everything else is so ridiculous compared
to this one great truth of God, becoming man, dying on a cross for all of our sins and rising from the dead.
The creator of the universe loved us so much that he emptied himself of all of his glory, and he comes down to pursue us.
That's the good news.
I hope and pray that each and every one of you have realized this and have accepted him as your Lord and Savior.
If you've not reached that decision yet and you'd like to discuss it further, I welcome you to come up at the end of the service.
I will be down here.
I would love to have that conversation with you about that.
Or maybe
You just would like to take that next level, that next step of faith to become the superhero of faith for your family.
To step your spiritual walk up just one more notch.
Again, I'll be down here.
I'd love to talk to you about taking that step also.
And I hope as you came in that each one of you picked up a communion packet,
I'm going to ask that each of you take a moment and just consider the amazing fact that we just discussed, that God Almighty, the creator of the universe sent his one and only son to come down to this earth and pursue us, to lay his life down, to die on the cross for my sin and for your sin.
Let's take a moment.
that night when he was in the upper room with his disciples about to lay down his life he took the bread and said take and eat for this is my body which is broken for you
took the cup and said, this is my blood that is poured out for you.
Our Heavenly Father, we just thank You so much for coming down, taking on flesh, becoming
pursuing us, for laying your life down, for the forgiveness of my sin.
Lord, thank you for blessing us beyond what we deserve.
Lord, I pray that as we go out this week, that we be salt and light in an example for others to see how you have blessed.
lives and it's in your name that I pray.